[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief"
with our special
guest Jason Martell.
He is an acclaimed
researcher and lecturer
in ancient civilization
technologies,
and for over 20 years these
two realms of his business life
and his personal
passion has served
as a pillar of his career.
And he's here on "Beyond
Belief" to talk about it.
Hi, Jason.
>>JASON MARTELL: Hi, George.
Thanks for having me back.
>>NOORY: Always good to see you.
>>MARTELL: Thank you.
How did you get involved
in ancient civilizations
and studying those?
>>MARTELL: Well, you know,
it's been almost 20 years now.
>>NOORY: That long?
>>MARTELL: I know.
Time flies.
>>NOORY: It does.
>>MARTELL: When
I was in college,
someone had mentioned
that there's
some structures
on Mars, possibly
a face and some pyramids
that are artificial.
20 years ago this
was a different type
of climate around these topics,
so I was a little skeptical
and started to look into things
like the Freedom of Information
Act, various space agencies
and what they were doing,
and started to form my
own opinion around what's
actually happening and started
to realize that there's
a lot more going on
below the surface
if people start
to pay attention.
>>NOORY: There was a
lot of talk and brouhaha
about the Mayan calendar
or December 21st, 2012.
Some people thought
the world would end.
nothing would happen.
Where did you fit in that camp?
>>MARTELL: Yeah, and
so the Mayan calendar
was really one of those
interesting topics
that, for me, when I started
to look into ancient cultures,
Mars kind of kicked it off.
But then I realized we have
topics all over our own planet.
Ancient sites,
ancient civilizations.
The Mayans were one of those
that really raised my eyebrows,
because it started
to gain awareness
that there is some type
of a calendar system
and they're predicting
the end of time.
People misunderstood
this around 2012.
After 2012 passed, there
was a new understanding
at looking at the Mayan calendar
to go, well, wait a minute.
It wasn't an ending of
time, it was an ending
of an epoch of time, an age.
>>NOORY: An age, an epoch.
>>MARTELL: So that's
where we started
to realize that there's
a deeper history into how
they viewed time using
astronomical movements.
>>NOORY: How advanced
were the Mayans?
>>MARTELL: You know, the Mayans
were a little bit more advanced
than we give them credit for.
Even the Spaniards, when they
came there and aggressively
converted everybody
to Christianity,
they were very much intimidated
by the knowledge of the Mayans.
They had very advanced
astronomical knowledge
and movements of the heavens,
and Diego de Landa and others
that were coming there as these
Christian conquistadors were
a little bit challenged
by the integrity
and technological advances that
the Mayans already possessed.
>>NOORY: They had a lot to
do with prophecy as well,
did they not?
>>MARTELL: They did.
They had an
interesting calendar,
which was a
prediction-based calendar,
and they were known
as these baktuns,
that they could predict
what would be happening.
And so--
>>NOORY: And they have
many baktuns, right?
>>MARTELL: Many of them, right.
And I remember on
one of the stories,
this is a little
interesting, where
they were predicting the
return of their god Kukulkan.
And it was right
around the time frame
that the conquistadors
showed up,
and so they thought that this
was the god Kukulkan returning
in the glowing armor and
these white glowing sails.
And it turned out that
they were conquistadors
and aggressively converted
everybody to Christianity
and burned all the codices.
I think we have like three left.
>>NOORY: Right.
And brought diseases and
everything else, right?
>>MARTELL: All kinds
of other stuff.
So those prediction
calendars weren't
always like Edgar
Cayce perfection,
some advanced knowledge.
They were ways to predict
the changing and a larger
understanding of the
things that affect time.
>>NOORY: The documentary
"Mayan Revelations"
depicted some of
these prophecies.
>> December 21st, 2012.
That was the last time in
which people around the world
collectively thought the world
might actually come to an end.
This theory was based on a
supposed Mayan prophecy that
proclaimed an
Armageddon was coming
at the end of the 13th
baktun of the Mayan calendar.
This created a modern
obsession for the Mayan culture
like no other, an obsession
that turned global
when we learned about
the astonishingly
accurate measurements of time
the ancient Mayans had made.
Lending credibility to
this conspiracy theory,
a string of natural disasters
with intensities not seen
in recent times struck
our modern civilization
and caught us very
much unprepared.
However, once the supposed date
of this Armageddon had passed,
many of the doomsday
conspiracies
quickly faded from memory,
though for some, many questions
remained unanswered.
Had the Mayans made a mistake?
Had their science been flawed?
Or was it our very own
science that failed us?
>>NOORY: Must be fascinating
to tour some of the ruins
to see what they've done.
>>MARTELL: You know, lot
of these sites, George,
like Chichen Itza, we have
these pyramids where they align
in such a way where this
repeating, undulating snake
comes down the
pyramid of Castillo.
And there's just
no way that they
could have done this
by chance, to architect
and design these things.
It really does lend to their
amazing base of technology
that they must have had.
>>NOORY: Did they have help?
I mean, there's been
all kinds of talk
that that so-called figure
Lord Pakal came down from above
and helped them out.
What's that all about?
>>MARTELL: Well, you
know, others in my field,
David Childress,
many have concluded
that the Mayans were possibly
led to their location
by something they
called the Sky People.
It's really interesting to
look at their belief system
and how they architect
their understanding of gods.
And there's
definitely a presence
of a few different
gods that seem
to be detached from the
local populace, meaning,
you know, the Mayan
population are all dark skin,
dark hair, shorter people.
Kukulkan, Quetzalcoatl,
large figures.
Skinny, pale skin,
red hair, even.
And Pakal, King Pakal, very
interesting because even
to this day the sarcophagus
that he's in, you know,
not only is it
amazing that they had
to build this whole pyramid
over his sarcophagus,
but that lid clearly shows
King Pakal manipulating what
looks like some type
of a rocket ship.
>>NOORY: Like he's in a
spaceship or something?
>>MARTELL: He's in
a spaceship, yeah.
I mean, even the local
tourism there now
has embraced von Daniken's ideas
that, you know, you go there
and they're telling
you it's a spaceship,
and you can buy the little
Pakal sarcophagus lid anywhere.
So the tourism
there has definitely
been uplifted by these topics.
>>NOORY: How old
is the sarcophagus?
>>MARTELL: I'm not really sure
exactly when it was built.
That might be a better
crested question for someone
like David Childress,
but you can
Google it and find that fact.
>>NOORY: But it's old.
>>MARTELL: It is old.
And the geography that
they find in going
to where King Pakal is, they
find stalagmites, stalactites.
This is a sign that this
cave has been there--
>>NOORY: A long time.
>>MARTELL: Possibly
thousands of years, yeah.
>>NOORY: Might they
have been visited?
What do you think?
What's your gut tell you?
>>MARTELL: My gut says yes,
but whether they were aliens
we don't know.
What we see is that
many of these cultures
have been visited by
some lost race that
left an imprint on them about
technology, building styles,
astronomy.
But many other
cultures seem to have
that imprint from
some lost race,
and we can't quite
pinpoint who they are yet.
>>NOORY: Is there a
tie-in between the Mayans
and the Martians?
>>MARTELL: I would say that
there has to be in the sense
that if you ask the Mayans,
even the Mayans that exist today
as elders living in
Guatemala and other areas,
they still do this chanting.
That is to say they're
connecting with these Sky
People, their ancient gods.
They say at some
point there will
be an Armageddon or
some global catastrophe,
and this chanting keeps
them connected to be
saved from their gods in
their own view system.
>>NOORY: I know
one Maya, and he's
one of the hardest-working
guys I know.
And I mean, he's
dedicated to what he does,
and he helps clean
buildings at night.
But I picture him back
several thousand years ago,
and what remarkable
people they were.
>>MARTELL: Very
resilient, very smart.
And again, when the
conquistadors showed up,
they were the ones
that were intimidated
by the Mayans' advances in
technology and understandings
of space and time.
>>NOORY: How many
people were there?
Was it a big civilization?
>>MARTELL: Yeah, the
Mayan civilization
extended for at least
1,400 years in that area.
But again, there's
been migration patterns
showing that they probably
came from other areas.
Childress thinks there's
a lot of connections
with this ancient race
known as the Olmecs,
and we see that there was some
type of trans-oceanic contact
from Asia and Vietnam and some
of these other places that
brought civilization, maybe it
was this advanced lost race,
brought civilization
to the Mayan continent
and continued to flourish.
>>NOORY: And now
where have they gone?
They've scattered everywhere.
>>MARTELL: Yeah.
The Mayans are basically
in various other parts
of the world.
There's a big presence
still in Guatemala.
And a lot of them
that are elders still
uphold these
traditions of chanting
and an ancient understanding
of watching the skies
and understanding
that time is affected
by the movements of the heavens.
>>NOORY: Are you impressed
with the Mayan technology
of the past?
And did they have any tools?
Was there any artifacts around?
>>MARTELL: You know, there's
only certain things like King
Pakal's sarcophagus or the
Chichen Itza layout where
this Kukulkan is coming down
the side of the pyramid,
the architecture.
We haven't really found
any whiz-bang technology
components, but I
also think, George,
that there's another
layer there that Nazis
and various other
parties, for a long time
they've been seeking
out advanced relics,
and have scooped up any
of the really good stuff.
>>NOORY: Do you think the
Mayans might have been
the protectors of the planet?
>>MARTELL: I think at some
point they were definitely
connected to, let's call it
this geodetic world energy
grid of ancient sites, where
technology and knowledge was
being shared.
So Mayan civilization seems
to have been influenced
by other advanced
cultures, and they
were sharing knowledge
in a way that I
think still kind of dumbfounds
modern science and archeology.
>>NOORY: Jason, tell us a
little bit about precession.
What exactly is that?
>>MARTELL: Well, precession
is a very interesting topic.
Today, we kind of explain
it in saying that there's
a lunar solar wobble.
The moon is affecting the wobble
of the Earth in such a way
so that the orientation of our
North Star every 2,000 years
is pointing to a new North Star.
Now, their version of
precession, you know,
modern times, is very complex,
thousands of variables
of motion and torque.
And so precession is something
that we want to understand,
because many, many ancient
cultures, over 30 of them,
were tracking precession.
Now, if you consider
the modern view of it,
it's a 26,000-year cycle.
I take a slightly different
view of precession,
which we'll discuss
a little bit, on some
of the influences
of ancient cultures,
over 30 ancient cultures,
that watch the heavens.
And their version of
precession puts it
more in a cycle of about 24,000
years rather than 26,000.
So there's some variations on
how we view precession today.
>>NOORY: What's a couple
thousand years over time,
right?
>>MARTELL: You know, I don't
think it's that big of a deal,
but when we move it to
a 24,000-year cycle,
we see alignment with the
idea that there's 12 houses
of the zodiac broken down into
12 parts, each constellation.
And we move through each
zodiacal age every 2,000 years.
It's just a happier set of
numbers that work out better.
>>NOORY: There's a book
called Hamlet's Mill that
somehow ties into this.
Tell us about that.
>>MARTELL: So there were
a couple MIT professors
that actually tracked
over 30 ancient cultures
all using house of
the zodiac references.
We've broken the heaven
down into 12 parts
and assigned a
symbol to each house.
So somehow over 30
ancient cultures
were watching
precession and knew
that it was a cycle, that we
seem to go into a dark age,
and then come out of it
and go into a golden age.
And the cycle repeats.
We've all heard of the
Golden Age and the Dark Age.
Precession seems to somehow
connect these terms as time
being a cyclical process.
And that's a whole new lens to
look through our ancient times.
Some of the oldest
sites, Gobekli Tepe,
first dynastic pharoahs--
>>NOORY: Giza.
>>MARTELL: Giza.
The older back we go,
the more complex it is.
The further we come to us
and the Renaissance era,
it's Game of Thrones.
We forgot all the
ancient knowledge.
We're now relearning it.
Precession is somehow guiding
this lost age, dark age,
golden age cycle.
It seems to be guided and moved
by the motions of the planets.
>>NOORY: How did we
lose the knowledge?
I mean, we don't know how
the pyramids were made.
We've got all kinds of theories
about that from poured,
to the blocks were pulled
by thousands of Egyptians,
to sound resonance that
moved them into place,
extraterrestrial help.
How did we lose the
knowledge of that?
What happened?
Something just stopped,
and we lost it.
There was no carryover.
>>MARTELL: That's
really the question
for me, George, of what
I'm trying to figure out.
There's enough evidence
to show that we've
been losing this
knowledge gradually
for thousands of
years as we proceeded
into the last dark age.
Coming out of that dark
age, we have Renaissance,
Galileo, Copernicus.
Wait a minute, earth
isn't the center.
We're orbiting the sun.
Wait a minute,
precession is telling us
that there's a larger cycle.
So this knowledge is lost to
us through some natural process
that I'm still
trying to figure out.
The only thing I can give the
Twitter version of explaining
it is there's possibly
something tied to precession
that we actually have two suns.
That we're a binary system.
And if you think of all
the energy and enthusiasm
we feel in summertime because
of the sun's strength, what if,
in a binary system if
we have two suns, what
if there's a point in our
past where there's not just
one sun in the sky,
but there's two,
and the energy provided
by these two sources
enlightens us or allows
us to evolve faster
and we're in a golden age?
So when we come out of
that, this natural process
of our second sun
being too far away,
it's a very complex topic.
But astronomical movements
seem to affect our ability
to retain and know
things faster.
So maybe when we're in
the last golden age it's
super easy for us to
have advanced knowledge,
talk to extraterrestrials,
advanced beings.
Then we forget
all that knowledge
and they're not as
interested in talking to us
until we relearn
that information.
>>NOORY: This
binary star system,
which some people have
said is indeed the fact,
would have that other star way,
way out in the solar system
somewhere.
>>MARTELL: And
we've been talking
about this for a long time.
>>NOORY: Why can't we see it?
>>MARTELL: You know,
the idea that there's
a Planet X, if there
is another star,
could there be another
planet like Sitchin talked
about that's coming around?
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MARTELL: But this
other star system, again,
there's knowledge there.
The other star system
best candidate is probably
Sirius, Sirius A and B.
That star system connected
to our star system in a binary
rotation around each other
make for an interesting
dance of understanding
that Sirius has its own
planets and life evolving.
And lots of ancient
cultures point
to that as the source of
extraterrestrials visiting us.
>>NOORY: A lot of
experts have said, Jason,
that past civilizations go
back way farther than we think.
>> Up until recently, archeology
placed the origins of what we
would call civilization
back about 3,000,
3,500 BC with the rise of
Sumer and Egypt and India.
China as well.
But over the last
four or five decades,
it's becoming clear
that there was plenty
going on before that.
>> Recent discoveries of complex
structures near Hamoukar,
Syria are estimated to date
back almost 6,000 years.
Still more startling, a team
of Indian oceanographers
has found the remains
of a huge city submerged
in the Gulf of Cambay.
An astounding 10 square
miles in size, the city
has been carbon dated
at 9,500 years old.
And in Nabta Playa,
Egypt a circle of stones
acts as a calendar star map that
plots the exact points of stars
and possibly their distances.
Archeologists believe the site
might be as old as 10,000 BC.
>> Definitely Indians were in
North America at least 14,000
years ago, probably
15,000, 16,000 years ago.
>> Almost every week or month
or so, they're finding some new
bit of archaeological evidence
that keeps pushing the clock
back.
>>NOORY: I'm waiting
for James Earl Jones
to say "Luke, I'm your father."
Great voice.
Great voice indeed.
What does that tell
you, what we just saw?
>>MARTELL: It tells
me that there's
evidence of ancient cultures
going back much further than we
currently attribute time.
So we see sites like Giza
and Nazca, and ancient Sumer,
and wonder, are they
aligned to the cultures
that we're saying
built those structures?
And it appears that a
lot of these structures
are being given
fresh coats of paint
or just redone by that
current civilization.
But some of these
structures are going back
to a time period which is
off the current records
of our history, 10,000 BC plus.
So it's really
starting to, I think,
force us to look
further back in time,
and try and make new connections
and understandings to explain
what before, scholars and
archaeologists would say,
those are connections that
we just want to ignore
because we can't explain.
>>NOORY: Are there purposes
behind these structures?
I mean, who would make
them for no reason?
There's got to be something
specific why they're there.
>>MARTELL: I think
there is, and there's
a couple of ways to look at it.
When we look at some of
these megalithic sites,
Giza, Stonehenge, even Nan
Madol in the middle of nowhere.
A lot of these sites show
a type of brilliance,
and they're geodetically
placed that somehow in the past
they could have been sharing
some type of subtle energy.
Now, I theorize
that when we talk
about the idea of a
golden age and then
descending out of a golden age,
the advances they could have
been making in saying wow,
this natural energy keeps us
at this highest
state of evolution.
We need to somehow naturally
harness this energy.
So it's very possible that a lot
of these ancient sites, which
we still don't understand how,
Giza as a power plant perhaps,
were generating--
>>NOORY: That's
Christopher Dunn's theory.
>>MARTELL: That's right.
Maybe they were generating
this natural energy
and trying to hold
onto the essence that
allows us to stay in
a higher evolved state
and pump that around the planet.
That's one idea, is
to keep the golden age
energies as long as we can.
The other idea is that it was
literally a shared energy.
Craft or vessels of
any kind traveling
to these ancient sites would
be able to "power up" somehow
from the stored energy
at these locations.
>>NOORY: How would
they know this, Jason?
How would they know this?
>>MARTELL: You know, these
are all theories right now,
but what we see, George,
is that all the brilliance
at these locations add up
to something being more
than just a tomb, more
than just a monument that
was dedicated to a god.
They had purposes.
And if we dig deeper, like
Erich von Daniken has done.
He's actually found that
some of these sites,
in Mexico for instance,
these pyramids.
They found things underground
where they opened it up
and it's a huge vat of
mica, that crystalline-like
substance, mica,
very bright white.
And it used to coat the
whole surface of the pyramid.
So there's pieces
of the past, how
we can look at a lot
of these structures,
and try and figure out
what they were used for.
We just need to continue
to dig deeper and use
current technology to make
better connections as to how
they were being utilized.
>>NOORY: If you could
jump into a time machine
and go back into time, what
era would you go back to?
>>MARTELL: I'd probably want
to go back to around 4,000 BC.
We see a lot of advances with
Sumer, Mesopotamia, Babylon,
the evolution in that area.
And also Giza, you
know, what we see
there is just a time when
even the pharaohs would
be able to walk
down the pyramid,
be right at the banks of
the Nile, get on a boat,
do their thing.
And now we see
thousands of years
later that the Nile has moved
miles away from the pyramid,
and we wonder how long
the pyramids and the Nile
have actually been there.
How long,
geographically, does it
take for those types of
changes to take place?
>>NOORY: The ancient
civilization of the Dogon tribe
talked about the
Sirius star system
that you mentioned earlier,
and talked about it
as a binary star system.
How in God's name
would primitive tribes
have known there was a binary
star system when we didn't know
it hundreds of years later?
>>MARTELL: It really
raises a lot of questions,
and when people visit
the Dogon tribe,
they see that they're still
surrounded by their own process
of evolution.
They haven't really let inside--
they haven't actually let
technology into their culture.
So they're not using
advanced mathematics,
they're not using telescopes,
all the things that
would be needed to be able to
identify that Sirius is made up
of two stars A and B.
And having this advanced
knowledge not only of Sirius
but also of the
Orion constellation,
and tracking this
knowledge, what we see here
is that the Dogon tribe
actually attributes
a lot of this knowledge to these
gods that come from Sirius.
And there seems to be a pattern
when we look at other cultures
around not only are these
beings coming from Sirius,
but how they describe
these beings.
Amphibious beings, somehow
water-like creatures,
almost mermen, if you will.
>>NOORY: Let's take a
look at the Dogon tribe.
>> The Dogon tribe of West
Africa were discovered in 1935
by two French anthropologists,
Griaule and Dieterlen were
their names.
These two anthropologists
eventually
gained the respect
of the Dogon shaman
and were allowed to hear
their sacred knowledge.
What amazed these
anthropologists
was that the Dogon tribe
possessed knowledge
of the Sirius star system that
no ancient people should ever
have possessed.
The Dogon tribe told them
that not only was there
a relationship between
Sirius and our star,
but they claim that a
group of what could only
be described as alien
creatures, called the Nommos,
descended down to earth.
And that this group of
beings imparted to them
the knowledge that they then
possessed about the Sirius star
system.
What they couldn't
understand was
how it was they had
knowledge of Sirius B, which
is a white dwarf star.
It's the smallest form of
visible star that we know of,
and we can barely see it
with modern day telescopes.
And yet, they knew of
its absolute existence
and they called it Po Tolo,
which is a tiny seed found
in West Africa.
And they said it's a tiny star,
but it's the heaviest thing
that there is.
Well, they were
alluding to the fact
that white dwarf stars
have some of the highest
density of any stellar
bodies that we know of.
And that's not something
an ancient people should
have known anything about.
>>NOORY: That's one of the
most incredible stories
I've ever heard.
There's no other
way that they would
possess this kind of knowledge
unless they were told it.
>>MARTELL: I think so.
>>NOORY: And who
would tell them?
>>MARTELL: Well, the Nommoly.
Their gods that they
depict are actually
the ones that they're saying
bequeathed this knowledge
to them.
>>NOORY: They came down.
>>MARTELL: And as you'll
see, other cultures
seem to share in this knowledge
of some type of mermen
or some type of a god
that has aquatics attached
to it coming from Sirius.
>>NOORY: Could they have learned
this through astral projection?
>>MARTELL: A lot of the--
>>NOORY: But if they did,
they would have said that.
>>MARTELL: I think
it's interesting,
though, that a lot of
the ancient cultures
did use a trance-like
state, either meditative or
chemically-induced, and they
actually have very constructive
conversations and pulled data
out of that Akashic record
somehow and apply it into the
physical term where they then
have complex mathematical
understandings and things
that they say they gained
from their spiritual journey.
So maybe, but no, they
write on the walls
and make descriptions of saying
these beings came from Sirius.
>>NOORY: Tell us about
the Dagon of Mesopotamia.
>>MARTELL: Right, so what's
an interesting correlation
is we see not only the Dogon
coming from Sirius and the idea
that Sirius is also
known as the dog star.
So we see the Dogon
tribe, possibly
referencing dog star Sirius,
but other cultures as well.
Even going back to Mesopotamia,
of the god Dagon, which
is a derivative of the
earliest Sumerian god,
Enki and Enlil,
these two versions.
And so when we look
at this, we actually
see that there's a version
of the Sumerian god depicted
as a merman, a fish.
And so this is the
same representation
of what we have of Dagon.
He's depicted as
a merman, a fish.
So we see these same connections
referencing Sirius, but also
verbally.
Could it have been some race
that came from the dog star
and it has been influencing
the Dogon tribe?
Or is it the Dagon
Mesopotamian god?
And various other
cultures, as you'll see.
>>NOORY: What about
the Dagon like Japan?
>>MARTELL: That's right.
I think it's the Dogu statues
that we have in Japan.
Again, we have these
references of their gods,
and if you look at
the Dogu statues,
they look like spacemen.
They look like they're
in space suits.
>>NOORY: They don't
look human at all.
>>MARTELL: What's
really interesting, too,
George, is that we always
have been theorizing up
to this point, Dogu,
Dagon, dog star.
Could these be spacemen?
They all have a
water god reference.
However, if you look at these
statues of the Dogu from Japan,
they also could be--
look like the 1800s dive
suits, ancient dive suits
with the big helmets
where you would be underwater.
>>NOORY: Good point.
Scuba divers.
>>MARTELL: Scuba divers.
So it could be that maybe, we
haven't made this connection
yet, but it could be that
all these ancient gods being
depicted as merman
and then being
designed in these big suits,
maybe they weren't spacemen.
Maybe they were underwater
gods that somehow
were rising to the surface.
>>NOORY: What about
the Chinese culture?
>>MARTELL: So again, we have the
same trade-off there of Dogu,
Dagon, and in China
we have dragon,
a certain slight derivative of
the word Dagu, Dagon, dragon.
And all the references
of the various emperors
that were able to take a
dragon-like form actually
came from some type of
reptilian background.
And again, if we look into
the origins of a dragon,
it started as an amphibious
creature in the water.
A lot of connections
there when we
start to realize many cultures
referencing Sirius and then
using this derivative of
Dagon, Dogu, dog star,
to describe the beings
that were visiting them.
>>NOORY: Why isn't modern
science more into this?
There should be 100
Jason Martells out there,
and there aren't.
>>MARTELL: You know, I don't
know the answer to that,
George, only to
compare it to what
we see happening now with like
ATIP, Advanced Aerial Threat
Intercept Program, and
the Navy's changing view
on saying this stuff.
I think up till now
there's been a reluctance
to talk about these topics
from mainstream science.
And political standpoint is
just to simply ignore it.
We don't have an answer,
let's sweep it under the rug
and ignore it.
That seems to be changing now.
And so just like the advances
in our modern ufology and making
changes, I think to
the past, we also
need to just be a
little more open-minded,
dig a little deeper, and
look for the connections that
do exist but still
elude us slightly.
>>NOORY: It's dramatic, it's
puzzling, is it frustrating?
>>MARTELL: Yeah, it's
a little frustrating.
Up till now, the people who have
had the keys to these sites,
and not that I would fault
them, but like Giza and someone
like Zahi Hawass--
>>NOORY: He's out now, though.
>>MARTELL: Yeah.
They've always been very tied
to their historical background
to represent that area.
Mayan, Egyptian, Sumerian.
Even in India, the
lost city of Dwarka.
Right off the coast there's
a 13-mile sunken city.
But if you ask the people
on the land in India,
they're all political about
what's that city's meaning,
and who was using
it, what it means.
So we just we just need to
rally up and cross-culturally
start to compare our
evidence a little better.
Thankfully, shows like
Ancient Aliens and other--
the internet, obviously,
we're starting
to collaborate a lot more
on these ancient sites
and not just look at from
our own historical background
from that culture, but
cross-culturally, you
can see that under the
theory of ancient astronauts,
all cultures have these
references of sky beings,
seeing people flying around.
Holistically, it starts to
give us a better picture.
>>NOORY: Well Zahi
Hawass, as you mentioned,
who used to head up Egypt's
Antiquities Department,
he'd be incensed
if you brought up
any kind of extraterrestrial
happenings around the pyramids.
Everything was all Egyptian.
>>MARTELL: I literally
think like 10 years ago he
was on your show, and I
called in and asked him
about the face on Mars,
saying, look, there's
pyramids and a Sphinx in Egypt,
and you have a Sphinx-like face
and pyramids on Mars.
And he's like, show me
one piece of evidence.
You know.
And that's fine,
and I respect Zahi
and that he is entrenched
in his beliefs,
but what I just think
is interesting is
that those traditional
entrenched set of beliefs
that we have for
many other experts
are now being challenged.
Because from a
culture perspective,
you might have some
validity, but you
can't fight all the global
cultures aligning together
to say, we see patterns that
exist beyond just what you're
seeing locally.
>>NOORY: I also asked him
about Cairo, because Cairo
means Mars, and he went nuts.
>>MARTELL: That's great.
>>NOORY: But that's
what it means in Arabic.
Cairo means Mars.
>>MARTELL: That's
a great connection.
Yeah, that's good stuff.
>>NOORY: I mean, how
could that happen?
>>MARTELL: There's got to
be something to it for sure.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Talking about Mars,
when we go there,
when we send astronauts
to Mars, what do you
think we're going to find?
>>MARTELL: Well
that's the thing,
George, is looking at all
these ancient cultures, Mayans,
Egyptians, Aztec.
They all seem to have references
in their ancient past to using
Mars.
Even the Sumerians, with
Zecharia Sitchin's research,
talk about Mars
as a way station.
They would mine gold on
earth, transported it to Mars,
and then they would take it
to where they were going,
Nibiru or whatever.
So what I think
is interesting is
that all across our
cultures, there's
references of Mars
being used by the gods.
So when we travel
to Mars, I think
we're finally going to
be able to uncover some
of the myths that
have been there,
even since Schiaparelli
seeing canali.
I think they're all going to
be validated once we actually
go there and see that, yeah,
life's been there, is there.
And the [INAUDIBLE] to be able
to have life today probably
still exists with some
type of atmosphere.
>>NOORY: Is NASA holding
back information on Mars,
in your opinion?
>>MARTELL: Yes, I do
believe that NASA, not
for some cover-up
reason, they're
just been aggregating data.
And a lot of the data they've
been taking in over the last 20
years from landers and orbiters
shows that the surface of Mars
is generating methane gas like
dying plants, plant material
dying, methane gas.
Standing bodies of
water, flowing water.
So I think at some point they've
been building enough evidence
to now we see even our current
President, Trump, backing
a space race.
The moon in five
years, and Mars in 10.
Permanent settlements.
So I take that to heart.
I mean, I want to go there
for my own personal reasons.
>>NOORY: Would you go to Mars?
>>MARTELL: Not to live.
>>NOORY: You would not.
>>MARTELL: Maybe to visit.
>>NOORY: You would
want to come back.
>>MARTELL: Yes.
But I definitely feel--
>>NOORY: It's a couple
year trip, isn't it?
>>MARTELL: It is, unless
we change the paradigm
of the technology we're using.
You can ask people at
Lockheed Martin Skunk
Works about what they've been
doing in the F-117 and the B-2.
Ask them what they're building
now, and they'll tell you,
I'll tell you in 25 years.
>>NOORY: Are we ever going to
get speed of light technology?
>>MARTELL: I think
we already have it.
When it becomes a
consumer product,
it's something that, again,
we see a changing paradigm
right now, George, with a
lot of these companies that
are military-backed
aerospace companies having
the paradigm changed in
how they can now report.
You can Google this.
It was just released.
Forward-facing
Raytheon attack cameras
are now driven by
new software to help
pilots see threats quicker.
But as a nice little side
note in the article publicly
announcing, it also
helps us identify UFOs.
Unidentified aerial phenomena
is now also picked up
by our advanced radar
system and allows
us to track it much faster.
Just the fact--
>>NOORY: We couldn't
do that 10 years ago.
>>MARTELL: Or they
wouldn't tell us about it.
>>NOORY: Well,
that's a good point.
>>MARTELL: So the
fact that they're
letting all these
things out of the bag
makes me optimistic
that the space race
is going to change
in the next 20 years
very quickly,
allowing us to start
to see beyond this veil of
space that the DOD and NSA have
controlled for a long time.
That veil is starting
to lift for some reason.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Robert Zubrin of course
heads up the Mars Society,
and he wants to go to Mars.
>>MARTELL: Yes he does.
>>NOORY: Do we even have a
space program today, Robert?
>> Oh yeah, we have
a space program.
But only parts of
it are functional.
The robotic planetary
exploration program
is quite functional and is
returning exciting results
from their various probes
to Mars and Jupiter.
The space astronomy program is
very functional with the Hubble
Space Telescope, with the
Kepler Space Telescope.
And this year we may launch
TESS, a new space telescope,
and then the Webb
Space Telescope.
They've got great stuff.
But the human spaceflight
program is completely adrift.
It's been operating
without meaningful goals
basically since
the end of Apollo.
We have enough
money we're putting
into the human
spaceflight program
to be sending people
to the moon and Mars.
But instead they're just going
up and down to earth orbit
and being used as test subjects
by guinea pig scientists
to measure the effects of zero
gravity on human physiology.
This is just crazy.
Astronauts should not be guinea
pigs, they should be explorers.
>>NOORY: Right, right.
It's got to be frustrating
for somebody like you.
>> Yes, certainly.
>>NOORY: Because I mean, you
have developed your career
to try to get us to explore.
And we're not
doing that anymore.
>> Right.
We need a goal-driven
human spaceflight program.
And the primary goal at this
point should be humans to Mars.
Mars is where the science is,
it's where the challenge is,
it's where the future is.
And I must say that if we build
a hardware set that can take us
to Mars, we'll
also be able to do
the moon and the near-earth
asteroids as well.
>>NOORY: I have an old saying.
We won't know unless we go.
And that's true.
>>MARTELL: I'm so ready,
George, and that clip
is a great one in the sense
that someone like Robert
has got to be so frustrated
with the political backup.
>>NOORY: Oh yeah.
>>MARTELL: The entrepreneurial
doors are opening.
And if you think about it
there's-- and you can Google
this too, it was just released.
There is an asteroid
floating out
by the moon that's
worth, like, so much
money that everyone on
earth would be a billionaire
if they were to mine it.
>>NOORY: It could be gold.
>>MARTELL: There's
floating balls
of gold and precious minerals
that in the next five to 10
years we can send drones,
start to mine this,
and then that
earth-based $4 trillion
won't be spent on earth.
We'll start building in space,
on the moon, and in Mars.
That's where I personally
want to invest my money
and be a part of those
aerospace companies.
Because that's where
we're going to go.
It's not moving to space, it's
opening the doors to space.
>>NOORY: Well, and
you know, here we
are 50 years since we
landed on the moon, 50 years
with that kind of technology.
We should probably be able
to get to the Moon and Mars
again like that,
don't you think?
>>MARTELL: I feel
somewhat sad too,
in the sense that
I feel like it's
a three-ring circus of what
we're watching with NASA
and the space program.
The real game is being played
by a black budget of what,
$9 trillion missing
that has built--
>>NOORY: Many have said that.
>>MARTELL: --a space
program that's in existence.
>>NOORY: Actually $21
trillion missing now.
>>MARTELL: Amen.
So there's something that's
been going on for a long time.
The best place to point
to where that money went?
In space.
>>NOORY: Should we be
working as a unified planet,
or do we go at
this by ourselves?
>>MARTELL: I think we're already
doing it as a unified planet
and that what we see at
a political level, what
we see on the news, a lot of it
is engineered and fabricated.
And if you see what we're doing,
like with the International
Space Station and
the presence there
of many different
countries, I'm sure there's
other efforts going
on that we're just not
privy to at the public level
where there is collaboration.
Even since the Star Wars
program with Reagan, you know,
that system wasn't developed
to attack the Russians.
Those missiles weren't pointed--
or those lasers weren't
pointed at Earth.
They were pointed out
at something else.
>>NOORY: They were pointed out.
That's right.
We've seen some strange
videos about stuff like that,
haven't we?
>>MARTELL: Yes, we have.
And so I want to go.
I want to see it
with my own eyes,
and I feel like
Trump's saying we're
going to be at the
moon in five years
permanently, and then at
Mars permanently in 10 years.
I'm going to hold
them to their money,
because as an entrepreneur,
I want to push this forward
by actually being involved.
>>NOORY: The late remote
viewer, Ingo Swann,
whom the government used during
their own Stargate program
with other remote
viewers, claimed
that there was a
series of structures,
artificial, on the
far side of the moon.
What do you think of that?
>>MARTELL: I think the
astronauts that went up there
in their space buggy
said, Houston, why'd
you send us here in baby toys
when the military is here
in Ferraris?
They've known this
for a long time
that there's another
presence on the moon,
most likely not only human,
but it could be also human,
some lost presence that even
has a German part to it,
or we could speculate--
>>NOORY: Absolutely,
or even further back.
>>MARTELL: Even further back.
>>NOORY: You know, there
were these old time movies
that we had gone to the
moon, way gone back,
with past civilizations.
I don't think we
can count that out.
>>MARTELL: No, and there was
a funny one done in like,
the '60s called
Alternative 3, where
they made fun of missing
scientists and people,
and then they showed color
footage of the Russians landing
on the moon in 1969.
It's a clip called
Alternative 3,
and the highlight
of the clip is them
landing as you see
something scurrying
under the surface of the land.
And they're like, my god,
we've discovered life on Mars!
What they're alluding to
I think is already fact,
and they're kind of
just desensitizing us
to what we're already
going to pretty much know
is there, that there
is life on Mars,
and that there is this
ancient presence of a history
connecting Earth and Mars.
>>NOORY: Do you think that will
be the next dramatic thing we
find out?
That there might have
been life on Mars
and that there might have
been an alien presence there?
>>MARTELL: I think we might
make some steps before that.
There are things happening now
on Earth, under our own oceans,
under the landmasses,
Antarctica.
We might find some
discoveries here on Earth
or some things might be
made public that would then
start to question even
further, wow, let's start
to look at sites like Mars
and other sites with a little
more scrutiny.
>>NOORY: Michael
Cremo's always said
we are much older
than we think we are.
Do you agree?
>>MARTELL: Very much so.
He is one of the
masters of finding
these forbidden artifacts and
pieces of information that
show there are pieces
of evidence, footprints
with dinosaur embedded in
stone, some little, you know,
bolt or something
embedded in a rock that's
a billion years old.
There's pieces of evidence that
if we put it all on the table,
there's been some type of
a technological presence
on earth for at least
a billion years.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MARTELL: So I mean, it's a
seven billion year old planet
or so.
There are literally
hundred-million-year gaps
of time where a civilization
could have evolved, left
the planet, and then we've
never even known about them.
So things like the
dinosaurs evolving,
or even dolphins evolving to
a point where they could have
been technological and left.
These are all in the
realm of possibility
when we analyze how long
this earth has been here.
>>NOORY: What do
you think will be
the next evolution
of knowledge for us,
Jason, something dramatic
that might happen?
And when might that be?
>>MARTELL: Well, I
feel like there's
been this quickening effect
around our field with ufology.
I almost want to say that
within the next 20 years,
hopefully the doors to space
are going to finally open up.
We haven't been to the moon
since 50 years, as you said.
>>NOORY: No, we haven't.
>>MARTELL: I think that's just
a public umbrella of information
and that we've been
doing things quietly
in space for a long time.
And when they open
these doors, there's
going to be a Renaissance
age of understanding that,
boy, the limits are now
much further out there
than we thought by just
saying we're on earth,
and we're wasting our
natural resources,
and the population
is getting too big.
We can change that.
>>NOORY: How do you
look at your research
over the next few years?
Where do you go next?
>>MARTELL: My
research is encoupled
with being an entrepreneur.
So I love ancient technology.
I love looking at ancient sites.
What I'd like to
push for is being
able to utilize more technology
and access into the aerospace
programs.
So I'm a civilian.
I'm-- you and I talk about
these topics, Ancient Aliens,
but nothing stops me from
getting security clearances
and using my professional
skill set to help the aerospace
industry.
And that's exactly
what I want to do.
I don't want to
just be a Ufologist,
I want to be a
hands-on researcher.
And there are companies
that are doing this now,
SAIC, Raytheon,
Lockheed Martin, and I
could keep going on and on.
They all have an agenda
to be pushing things
in space for consumer products
and to open up the idea
that we can be a civilization
beyond just the earth.
>>NOORY: Are they
interested in your skills?
>>MARTELL: They are.
This goes beyond just
building spaceships.
There's software development,
there's infrastructure,
there's business, there's
actual support systems
that we'll be needing for
just consumerism in general,
when we extend the space
station to be, you know,
10 times what it is.
So funny enough, you think about
like, Starbucks, and Disney,
and McDonald's.
These companies are
already talking to,
and thinking of ways to
have a presence in space.
>>NOORY: A franchise of
McDonald's on the moon.
>>MARTELL: There you go.
>>NOORY: What would you
say has been your biggest
contribution to all of this?
>>MARTELL: I think my biggest
contribution, thankfully,
is that with business
success and having
a professional career,
I've been able to open
the doors to utilizing
technology or being
able to look at some
of these ancient sites
with the utilization
of technology
so that we can just have
hopefully a clearer picture.
And we're going
to continue to be
able to do this
with the advances
in ground penetrating radar,
the aerial packages of things
that you can put onto a drone
and not have to have a plane,
and get into these tight
spaces and see things.
So I think that
there's going to be
some very interesting
advances with technology
that I'd like to be a part
of that will help us push
the lens of seeing
deeper into the past
and making these connections.
>>NOORY: Will we ever
get to the point, Jason,
where we simply
say I told you so?
>>MARTELL: I kind
of feel like that's
happened a few times already,
with what we see with ATIP
and shows like Unidentified
now exposing the fact
that there have been programs
well beyond Project Blue
Book going on for decades.
The I told you so moments
have been happening
for kind of a while now with
shows like Ancient Aliens
allowing people to start
to realize, wait a minute,
this has all been going
on for a long time.
It was you who just chose
not to pay attention.
>>NOORY: And the public,
are they accepting this?
>>MARTELL: Well, yeah.
>>NOORY: Starting to?
>>MARTELL: I think they are.
I think what we see is, again,
just like the whole idea
that we've just moved, where
the Mayan calendar says
we've moved out of
the age of Pisces
into the Age of Aquarius.
The whole idea of
the Age of Aquarius
is the quickening of
knowledge and learning.
That's exactly what's
been happening, especially
with the idea that all the
world religions, Christianity,
Judaism, have all been impacted
by the world becoming a smaller
place.
And shows like
"Ancient Aliens" allow
us to really see the brilliance
and dynamic understandings
of other cultures and
just how really close
we are at the core.
We all had interactions
with beings that
came down from the heavens.
We all have this lost
history with our ancestors
that seems to go much farther
back than we understand.
So I'm very optimistic
about the future.
>>NOORY: Jason, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief".
>>MARTELL: My pleasure, George.
>>NOORY: Fascinating discussion
about ancient civilizations.
Something to it.
Will we ever get the answers?
With people like Jason
Martell, you better believe it.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for being on "Beyond Belief."